Task 48 — oc-lsp client, registry, supervision, and composite tool
Date: 2026-08-06

Implementation scope
- Incremental Content-Length JSON-RPC framing with concurrent request-id demultiplexing.
- Initialize/initialized handshake, reverse requests, didOpen/didChange/didClose, and diagnostics notifications.
- Table-driven coverage of every built-in in the current oracle/server schema (38 definitions; the task text says 39, but both current server.ts and BUILTIN_SERVER_IDS contain 38).
- Resolved LSP config support: disable-all, per-server disable, command/extensions/env/initialization overrides, and custom servers.
- Injectable ServerInstaller seam; tests and runtime perform no network download.
- Bounded restart supervision, degraded event-before-state ordering, child kill/reap, and clean shutdown.
- Single TypedTool named lsp with the nine upstream operations.

Validation
1. cargo fmt --all -- --check
   PASS
2. cargo test -p oc-lsp
   PASS: 8 unit tests, 2 live integration tests, 0 failures.
3. Live TypeScript differential
   PASS: typescript-language-server 5.3.0 reported TS2322 and the normalized diagnostic exactly matched opencode 1.18.12 with an explicit command override.
4. Live rust-analyzer
   PASS: rust-analyzer 1.96.0 reported the deliberate E0425/does_not_exist error in an isolated temporary Cargo project.
   Oracle note: opencode 1.18.12 returned an empty diagnostics array for the same Rust fixture, so exact differential equality would assert the oracle defect; the live-server assertion proves the Rust client behavior instead.
5. cargo clippy -p oc-lsp --all-targets -- -D warnings
   PASS
6. cargo build -p oc-lsp
   PASS
7. rust-analyzer diagnostics . --severity error
   PASS: diagnostic scan complete with no error diagnostics.
   The lsp_diagnostics tool rejected the sibling worktree path as outside its fixed request cwd; rust-analyzer's workspace diagnostic command was used as the equivalent changed-file diagnostic check.
8. git diff --check
   PASS
9. Explicit missing-prerequisite skip proof
   PASS: temporarily changed the TypeScript server lookup to a guaranteed-missing command and ran the targeted live test with --nocapture.
   Observed: "skipping live TypeScript LSP differential: typescript-language-server not found"; the test passed, and the temporary lookup change was restored.
10. cargo test -p oc-lsp --offline
    PASS: 8 unit tests, 2 live integration tests, and doc tests; 0 failures.
11. cargo clippy --workspace --all-targets --offline -- -D warnings
    PASS
12. cargo fmt --all --check
    PASS
13. cargo metadata --locked --offline --format-version 1
    PASS
14. Three rounds of six concurrent offline library-test processes
    Command: for round in 1 2 3; do seq 1 6 | xargs -P6 -I{} cargo test -p oc-lsp --offline --lib --quiet; done
    PASS: all 18 processes passed all 8 library tests; 0 failures.
    Scope note: this concurrency check intentionally used --lib, as permitted, to avoid multiplying the 13-second external live-server tests.

Constraints checked
- No language server binary was downloaded.
- rust-analyzer was pointed only at a temporary isolated fixture for the live test, never this repository.
- No cargo test --workspace was run.
- No unsafe code.
- unwrap()/expect() occur only in tests.
- Every optional live-test prerequisite now prints the missing dependency and states that the test is being skipped before returning successfully.
